Description
-----------

Cirkuit is a GUI interface for LaTeX graphic tools (such as TikZ, Gnuplot,
Circuit Macros) to produce publication-ready pictures.

Cirkuit can also be used as a GUI for Circuit macros by Dwight Aplevich, which
is a set of macros for drawing high-quality line diagrams to include in TeX,
LaTeX, or similar documents. Cirkuit builds a live preview of the source code
and can export the resulting images in various formats. Cirkuit supports also
live preview of TikZ and Gnuplot sources.

MA


Notes for version 0.5.0
-----------------------

Version 0.5.0 of Cirkuit is a port of version 0.4.3 to Qt5 and KF5. It will
run on recent Linux distributions (tested on Mint 19). Error reporting has
been improved and some examples included in the distribution.

Cirkuits supports 'backends' for m4 circuit macros, pstricks, tikz and
gnuplot. It is probably most useful for the circuit macros. For Pstricks
and Tikz there are alternatives that may be more satisfactory: QTikz and
the the on-line www.overleaf.com. The Gnuplot backend does not work
currently with Greek characters.

m4 is now executed with the library path set with -I option, so statements
such as include(HOMELIB_`'darrow.m4) can generally be removed from
m4 scripts.

If upgrading from Cirkuit 0.4.3 copy your templates to
~/.local/share/cirkuit/templates/

AG


Source code
-----------

Cirkuit source code is now hosted on git.kde.org. The project homepage is
http://projects.kde.org/cirkuit.


Build instructions
------------------

Open a terminal and type:

sudo apt-get install g++ cmake extra-cmake-modules qtbase5-dev libkf5windowsystem5 libkf5texteditor-dev libkf5archive-dev libkf5newstuff-dev libkf5crash-dev libpoppler-qt5-dev


Then:
tar xzvf cirkuit-x.y.z.tar.gz
cd cirkuit-x.y.z
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. && make
sudo make install

To make it run you will a number of KF5 and Qt5 components.
You also need TexLive and a number of its packages. If LaTeX
reports that style files (*.sty) are missing use web searches
to identify the packages needed.

Most of the required packages can be loaded with:

sudo apt-get install epstool dpic ghostscript m4 pdf2svg imagemagick

sudo apt-get install texlive-latex-base texlive-latex-recommended texlive-pstricks texlive-base-bin texlive-extra-utils preview-latex-style texlive-font-utils texlive-latex-extra 

You might also need texlive-fonts-extra texlive-fonts-recommended and lmodern

To look at the help files (Help menu) a pdf reader such as Okular must be installed.

See: https://wwwu.uni-klu.ac.at/magostin/cirkuit.html




